[Music]
a Mexican beaded lizard one of the few
lizards in the world with a poisonous
bite and a very virulent one it is true
in the spring rival males fight
according to a very specific set of
rules
[Music]
they used neither their sharp powerful
claws nor their poisonous bite in their
battles
[Music]
[Applause]
at first they grapple rather we're
aiming to assess each other's strengths
[Music]
then they begin to wrestle in earnest
eats trying to pin down the other on the
ground
[Music]
these two are evenly matched
neither can get the crucial throw this
rather like an arm wrestling contest and
about can continue for several hours
[Music]
the eventual winner is the one who ends
up on top most frequently it's a
controlled test of strength in which
despite their lethal weaponry
no one gets seriously hurt
you